.TH bwping 8
.SH NAME
.B bwping
and
.B bwping6
are tools to measure bandwidth and response times between two hosts using
Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP) echo request/echo reply mechanism.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bwping
[ \fB-4\fR | \fB-6\fR ]
[ \fB-u\fR \fIbuf_size\fR ]
[ \fB-r\fR \fIreporting_period\fR ]
[ \fB-T\fR \fItos\fR ]
[ \fB-B\fR \fIbind_addr\fR ]
\fB-b\fR \fIkbps\fR \fB-s\fR \fIpkt_size\fR \fB-v\fR \fIvolume\fR \fItarget\fR

.B bwping6
[ \fB-4\fR | \fB-6\fR ]
[ \fB-u\fR \fIbuf_size\fR ]
[ \fB-r\fR \fIreporting_period\fR ]
[ \fB-T\fR \fItraf_class\fR ]
[ \fB-B\fR \fIbind_addr\fR ]
\fB-b\fR \fIkbps\fR \fB-s\fR \fIpkt_size\fR \fB-v\fR \fIvolume\fR \fItarget\fR
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB-4\fR" 5
Forces IPv4 mode. Default mode of operation is IPv4 for
.B bwping
and IPv6 for
.B bwping6
otherwise.
.IP "\fB-6\fR" 5
Forces IPv6 mode. Default mode of operation is IPv4 for
.B bwping
and IPv6 for
.B bwping6
otherwise.
.IP "\fB-u\fR \fIbuf_size\fR" 5
Sets the send/receive buffer size in bytes. Default value will be
automatically calculated based on transfer speed, packet size and
host timer accuracy.
.IP "\fB-r\fR \fIreporting_period\fR" 5
Sets the interval time in seconds between periodic bandwidth, RTT,
and loss reports. If zero, there will be no periodic reports (default).
.IP "\fB-T\fR \fItos\fR (\fBbwping only\fR)" 5
Sets the TOS value of outgoing ip packets. Default value is zero.
.IP "\fB-T\fR \fItraf_class\fR (\fBbwping6 only\fR)" 5
Sets the IPv6 Traffic Class value of outgoing ip packets. Default value is zero.
.IP "\fB-B\fR \fIbind_addr\fR" 5
Sets the source address of outgoing ip packets. By default the address
of the outgoing interface will be used.
.IP "\fB-b\fR \fIkbps\fR" 5
Sets the transfer speed in kilobits per second.
.IP "\fB-s\fR \fIpkt_size\fR" 5
Sets the size of ICMP packet (excluding IPv4/IPv6 header) in bytes.
.IP "\fB-v\fR \fIvolume\fR" 5
Sets the volume to transfer in bytes.
.SH AUTHORS
Oleg Derevenetz <oleg.derevenetz@gmail.com>
.SH BUGS
None known.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
This utility uses raw sockets to deal with ICMP messages, so root
privileges are required to run it.

Although
.B bwping
and
.B bwping6
does not require any special software on the remote host (only the
ability to respond on ICMP echo request messages), there are some
special requirements to network infrastructure, local and remote
host performance:

1. There should be no ICMP echo request/reply filtering on the network.
This includes QoS mechanisms (which often affects ICMP) at any point in
the testing path;

2. Local host should have enough CPU resources to send ICMP echo request
messages with given rate, and remote host should quickly respond on these
messages and should have no ICMP bandwidth limiting turned on.

If some of these requirements are not satisfied, then measurement results
will be inadequate or fail completely. In general, for testing bandwidth
where QoS is implemented, always test with traffic that matches the QoS
class to be tested.
.SH SEE ALSO
netstat(1), ping(8)
